# Modeling-Development-and-Design-of-an-Inverted-Pendulum-System-
A Bachelor's Thesis by a group of students from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology

The inverted pendulum has made its mark as a staple in the field of control theory, making an appearance in classic mechanical systems such as the Furuta pendulum and the cart-pendulum system. This thesis focuses on the reaction wheel pendulum, more specifically the modeling, development and design of an inverted spherical pendulum actuated by two perpendicular reaction wheels. The system is developed with the overarching objective of functioning as an interactive learning platform for testing and experimenting with various control configurations.

The modeling of the system is centered around the derivation of an expression for the dynamics, which is done through the utilization of the Euler-Lagrange equations. The design process integrates a hardware and mechanical design approach, aiming to achieve optimum functionality while minimizing expenditure. Fabrication of the mechanical components entails 3D printing, and the hardware components are intricately connected onto a bespoke PCB. The implementation of the operational functionalities, e.g., Euler angle estimation and control system algorithms, is executed through the usage of the ESP32 family-based microcontroller. Additionally, wireless communication between the microcontroller and a Python-based user interface is established, making the product intuitive and user-friendly. 
